# Initial Brainstorming and Process Documentation - 10.28.2020

Player makes a time clone of themself to do different actions throughout the level. Player can time-jump to assist themself. This creates a time 'clone' that can do half of a task and allow for the current clone to finish the other half of the task. An example of this being that the player starts using one of the clones to press down on a button, then jumping back in time to have the second clone run through the doorway opened by the button. 

Since this is a more single playered game, implementing the global high-scoring option would allow for competition between multiple players. 

There may be elemental sections to the map, allowing for fire power ups vs water power ups. These would be used against certain types of elemental enemies. The player woudl only be able to get these power-ups through travelling through the map. These could force certain types of time travel or prevent other types of time travel. An example of this could be that a player has to fight an ice enemy late in the game, but if the player has time travelled ovet the section where he/she receives a fire power up to defeat the ice enemy, the player would be unable to fight the enemy and would have to time travel backwards to find the power-up/weapon. A single cloned player can hold a power-up so it would be almost used as a checkpoint in order to reuse power ups. The player then would weant to make a clone at the point of where the power-up is recieved so that he/she can return to that clone and get the power-up again for future use. 

Documentarian: Ali Keller

# Values and Core Mechanic - 11.02.2020

We are hoping that our game has a sense of replayability at it's core. There would also be a puzzle mechanic especially in using multiple characters to solve different level challenges. This creates a multiplayer team effort experience into a single player puzzle. We want our players to be able to play through the level at least once, having a positive rewarding experience. But we also want the player to want to replay the level to find hidden power-ups and secrets. At the end, the player will be presented with stats like "time taken" and "secrets found" to encourage them to replay the level. This then aims the game toward the completionist player. 

An idea we had for this was having some sort of 4 elemental themed puzzle pieces that don't have to be collected to complete the level but would remain grayed out on the screen. This would encoruage the player to replay the levels to find these puzzle pieces. There would also be three keys throughout the level that must be completed to unlock the final door and beat the level. These would be in each of the three different zones that the player must navigate, and each key will be associated with a special power-up. The core mechanic of the game will allow the player to create a clone of themself that they can then operate. The clone will take all the player's current power-ups, so the player loses access to those power-ups until they merge with their clone again. This will lend itself well to a complex level design, that has multiple paths the player can take to reach their intended destination

Documentarian: Ali Keller + Perry Owens 

# UI Interface and Puzzle Design - 11.11.2020

We have now decided that our game will focus on a wizard character. This wizard will be able to make a clone of himself, which he can then control. The clone will steal whatever power-up the wizard is currently using at the time, and will retain the power-up while the wizard can pick up a different one. The clone will act separately from the wizard, and the player can toggle between controlling whichever character at any given time, but the wizard has to physically come in contact with the clone for them to be reabsorbed. The wizard can use his clone to navigate through the three different elemental sections. There are three elemental power-ups that can be used interchangeably and they can be accessed in each of the elemental sections. At the end of each section, there will be a unique reward, and once the three rewards are collected, the game is complete. There will also be three additional hidden secrets that the player can collect. These secrets are optional but will reveal a surprise at the end of the game! 

The story of the game will be as follows: In order to become a Grand Wizard, the main character must first accomplish two things, achieve immortality and pick a better Wizard name. The wizard already tried to achieve immortality once, but failed, resulting in him having the ability to make a younger clone of himself. Now, the wizard is trying to collect the three key ingredients needed to complete his immortality potion, and the optional secret rewards are clues to creating the ultimate wizard name! 

To reflect the story and gemplay, our UI will be relatively simple. The player will know whether the character they are controlling is the wizard or a clone, and the player will also know which power-up the character currently possesses. There will be the traditional hearts to represent player lives, as well as a timer to show the time taken to complete the level so far. Potentially, there might be a cooldown mechanic for using a power-up, which will be reflected in the UI as well. Importantly, there will also be a dialogue box constantly in one corner of the UI, and dialogue the wizard says will change each time the wizard enters a new area or performs a desired action. These snippets of dialogue will provide helpful but vague clues to the player, serving as hints that will help them solve the different puzzles presented throughout the level. 
